In the last lecture we encountered a so-called cors error. Cors stands for cross origin resource
sharing and that's exactly what we're doing.
We have a separated server and client,
remember they're running on different domains,
localhost 3000 for the server, localhost 4200 for our angular app.
Now client and server want to talk to each other and they're not on the same host, if they were, then
we could communicate without any issues
but if they're on different hosts like in our case, we got 4200 but it doesn't matter, if we have different
hosts
we're then communicating with such background requests will fail and
that's a security mechanism.
You should not be able to access the data on a server or its resources in general if you're not running
on the same server,
so if the request is coming from a different address, this will give us a so-called cors error.
The problem just is for our setup and for many modern web apps, we want to allow this,
it's not a security issue here it's a want behavior,
we want to expose our server API to all possible clients and naturally, they will not run on our server.
So we need to disable this default mechanism
and this is done by setting the right headers on the server side response, now which headers are these?
Back in our code, it has to be done in the server side code
as I mentioned,
so let's go there to the app.js file and there I will simply add one additional middleware. Now this middleware
of course has to run before we handle the response sending here because there after the response is
already sent,
we can't manipulate it any more and we want to manipulate the response because we need to add headers
to it.
So app use, no filters added, so no path filters added because I want to do this for all incoming requests
and then I get my default function as an argument here which gets the requests, the response and this
next function it can call and in there,
the goal is to call next at the end because request should be able to continue to the next middleware
but before we do that, I want to manipulate the request or the response to be precise.
So we'll take the response object and set a header with the set header method.
Now the set header method is very simple,
the first argument is the header key, the identifier and the second one is the value for that header.
So I want to set a header which is called access-control-allow-origin and make sure
to not mistype here because this is a clearly defined header understood by the browser.
The value I want to set it to is a star,
this means no matter which domain the app which is sending the request is running on, it's allowed to
access our resources,
this is one important header,
it's not the only one though. We also need to set another header related to this,
it's the access control allow headers header, well the first one allows which domains are able to access
our resources
but now we can also restrict this to domains sending requests with a certain set of headers besides
the default headers, there are default headers like the browser and so on
but we also want to allow some extra headers,
we want to allow the origin header and that simply is a comma separated list here,
the x requested with header, the content type header and the accept header. You can add more,
you can also remove some of them, we don't use them all in this app but this essentially means the incoming
request may have these extra headers,
it doesn't have to have them but it may have them and it will still be allowed. If it has another non-default
header which is not defined here, access would be blocked
even though we do generally allow it for all domains but this is an additional criteria.
Now there's one other header I will set with set header
and that is the access control allow methods header and here we control which http verbs may be used to send
requests
and I want to allow get post
and as you can see, this is again a comma separated list, patch, delete and important, options.
This is an implicit request sent by the browser by default prior to post requests for example to check
whether the post request is valid,
so even if you never directly send such an options request from within your angular app, it will implicitly
be sent and therefore you should allow it as http verb.
Now you can also allow put for example if your app needs that,
if you don't plan on using it, don't add it.
So this is now our setup and with these headers, we should now be able to send that request,
so if we save that, it should restart the server automatically.
We can go back to our angular app and simply reload the page
and now we see our two posts here and we get no error.
These are the posts coming from the server
and this is how we connect our angular app to our node express server in the most basic form.
Now that's cool and all,
now let's also make sure we can post new posts to the server.